assignments/hw2.md, before:

# [Homework 2](https://github.com/hendraanggrian/IIT-CS554/blob/assets/assignments/hw2.pdf): Chia Business Whitepaper Review

> You are to read the [Chia Business Whitepaper](https://www.chia.net/wp-content/uploads/2022/07/Chia-Business-Whitepaper-2022-02-02-v2.0.pdf)
  that discusses in detail the Proof of Space algorithm: Your review must be
  written in a narrative form, with bullets when appropriate. You are to
  generate a PDF file and submit it on BB before the deadline. You must do these
  reviews individually.

## Problem 1

> Paper title, paper authors, publication venue (conference, workshop, or
  journal name), year of publication.

Here's a citation block in APA format:

<div style="font-family: 'Noto Serif'; text-align: right;">
Cohen, B., Frazee, D., Graboi, M., Gunter, J., Hoffman, G. & Stoops, C. (2022, February 2). <i>Chia Business Whitepaper</i>. Chia Network Inc. https://www.chia.net/wp-content/uploads/2022/07/Chia-Business-Whitepaper-2022-02-02-v2.0.pdf
</div>

## Problem 2

> Paper summary (150~300 words); Clearly state the nature of the work (e.g.
  implementation of a real system, simulation, theoretical, empirical
  performance evaluation, survey, etc).

The *Business Whitepaper* is Chia's reason for its existence, which according to
Chia itself, is to create the ultimate digital money that is simpler than cash
yet resistant to theft while still maintaining the eco-friendly ethos that is
embedded in the company image. Central to this belief is their in-house
consensus model &mdash; an algorithm that verify transactions and award coins
&mdash; called **Proof of Space and Time**, a far cry from **Proof of Work**
originated from Bitcoin by pseudonym *Satoshi Nakamoto*. Despite this, Chia
still believes Proof of Space and Time to be the true Nakamoto consensus because
it is bound by more technical constraints, thus making it more resilient. In an
attempt to boost adoption rate, Chia also prides itself as one of the most
compliant blockchain in the market with clear regulatory blueprint adhering to
United States laws.

Unfortunately, Chia is still nowhere near reaching its utopian dream of "magic
internet money" as they gloriously described it. Because no matter how flawless
the technology is, it is eventually use cases and adoption rate that determines
whether or not a piece of software has a place in our society. As hopeful as
Chia is about their future, they are still consistently ranked outside the top
100 in most crypto indexing websites as of the time of this writing.

This situation is illustrated by how Chia instantly planned to go public even
though they just received fresh funding in 2021.<sup>[\[4\]]</sup> Further
dramaticized by the fact that it is now 2023 and they still have not gone
public, a giant setback they are yet to recover.<sup>[\[5\]]</sup>

## Problem 3

> What are the core contributions of this paper (1~3 items)?

The term **contribution** is ambiguous, nevertheless in this solution it refers
to financial contribution.

1. **Early Conception**: Founded by the inventor of *BitTorrent*, presumably
  using the BitTorrent winning as the initial Chia funding.
2. **Pre-Alpha Stage**: A round of investements from the likes of *A16Z*,
  *Greylock*, *True Ventures*, *Naval*, *Galaxy Digital*, *Metastable*, and
  others.
3. **Strategic Reserve**: The company has pledged to conserve 21 million XHC
  &mdash; Chia's native coin &mdash; as a fallback option for the darker days
  ahead.

## Problem 4

> How is this work/solution different than related work (<300 words)?

Chia is an environmentally-responsible blockchain ushering in a new revolution
around efficiency and sustainability. Whereas traditionally new coins are
awarded to participants with raw computing power, Chia utilizes unused
storage/memory space in a reservation-based system they initiatively call Proof
of Space and Time. To put it in simple terms, these empty spaces the plots
occupy are essentially lottery tickets each with the potential to win a certain
amount of XCH.

The power efficiency in Chia is particularly urgent in light of a recent federal
report claiming annual power usage of global cryptocurrencies has surpassed that
of the whole nation of Argentina or Australia.<sup>[\[6\]]</sup> The proponents
of the Proof of Space movement argue, that if enough people are using Chia, no
longer we have to deal with the outrageous power consumption of the conventional
Proof of Work system.

It however remains debatable how effective Proof of Space is compared to the
more recent Proof of Stake, a consensus model made popular by Ethereum
during [the long-waited merge](https://ethereum.org/en/upgrades/merge/). The
adoption rate of Proof of Stake is still low, but adaptability is much higher as
Ethereum is the second largest cryptocurrency at the time of this writing. To
exacerbate things further, Ethereum is more well-equipped to tackle
sustainibility issue commonly rampant among blockchain networks with sharding.<sup>[\[2\]]</sup>

## Problem 5

> Pros: Identify 3 things that this paper does well.

1. **Regularly Updated**: The previous paper version 1.1 is released just
  in 2021.
2. **Correct Prediction**: Rightfully assumes that NAND &mdash; electronic part
  essential for SSD &mdash; price will continue to plummet.<sup>[\[7\]]</sup>
3. **Lawful**: Provides adequate insight into the inner works of legal and
  financial system.

## Problem 6

> Cons: Identify 3 things that this paper could do better.

1. **Repetitive Information**: Some pieces of information are not streamlined.
  (more at [#7](#problem-7))
2. **Lack of Concession**: Could have spent a moment to admit that the hardware
  barrier is still high with most builds requiring enterprise-grade SSDs or
  extreme-capacity HDDs.
3. **Imperfect Security**: Its security can hypothetically still be improved, as
  explained in academic paper *Secure Plot Transfer for the Chia Blockchain*.<sup>[\[3\]]</sup>

## Problem 7

> Identify 1 thing that the author could do that would make the paper better.

The paper does a good job of narrowing the scope down to the business rules of
the Chia network rather than the technical side. And though the paper excels in
delivering selling points and uplifting remarks, I can't help but notice it
makes the same viewpoints in different parts of the paper. For example,
information about difference between Proof of Space and Time and Proof of Work
are scattered around the paper and could theoretically be merged into one
section.

On the other hand, it could just be their conscious (and harmless) decision to
reiterate good news again and again as it benefits their public image. On such
case this complaint is then automatically invalid.

## Problem 8

> Identify 1 thing that someone could pursue as future work (that is not
  identified in the paper already).

As a reference for future work, this paper could discuss the company roadmap
with upcoming features such as compression, GPU plotting, RAM plotting, etc.
Plotting &mdash; Chia's equivalent of farming &mdash; is a resource-intensive
process and every bit of hardware leverage could help.<sup>[\[8\]]</sup>

## References

1. [Cohen, B., Pietrzak, K., (2019, July 9). *The Chia Network Blockchain*. Chia Network. IST Austria.](https://www.chivescoin.org/wp-content/uploads/2021/10/ChiaGreenPaper.pdf)
2. [Chow, S. S. M, Lai, Z., Liu, C., Lo, E., Zhao, Y. (2018, August 3). *Sharding Blockchain*. IEEE.](https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/abstract/document/8726639/)
3. [Agrawal, S. (2022, June 4). *Secure Plot Transfer for the Chia Blockchain*.](https://eprint.iacr.org/2022/871.pdf)
4. [Cointelegraph: Chia raises $61M for ‘eco-friendly’ crypto despite critics](https://cointelegraph.com/news/chia-raises-61m-for-eco-friendly-crypto-despite-critics/)
5. [Bloomberg: Crypto Startup Chia’s New CEO Isn’t Giving Up on IPO Goals](https://www.bloomberg.com/news/articles/2023-01-19/crypto-startup-chia-s-new-ceo-isn-t-giving-up-on-ipo-goals)
6. [The White House: FACT SHEET: Climate and Energy Implications of Crypto-Assets in the United States](https://www.whitehouse.gov/ostp/news-updates/2022/09/08/fact-sheet-climate-and-energy-implications-of-crypto-assets-in-the-united-states/)
7. [Tom's Hardware: How Low Can SSD Prices Go? TrendForce Expects NAND Price Decline to Continue](https://www.tomshardware.com/news/trendforce-expects-nand-flash-prices-to-continue-falling/)
8. [Chia News: Plotting Chia's Future](https://www.chia.net/2023/01/20/plotting-chias-future/)

[\[1\]]: https://www.chivescoin.org/wp-content/uploads/2021/10/ChiaGreenPaper.pdf
[\[2\]]: https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/abstract/document/8726639/
[\[3\]]: https://eprint.iacr.org/2022/871.pdf
[\[4\]]: https://cointelegraph.com/news/chia-raises-61m-for-eco-friendly-crypto-despite-critics/
[\[5\]]: www.bloomberg.com/news/articles/2023-01-19/crypto-startup-chia-s-new-ceo-isn-t-giving-up-on-ipo-goals
[\[6\]]: https://www.whitehouse.gov/ostp/news-updates/2022/09/08/fact-sheet-climate-and-energy-implications-of-crypto-assets-in-the-united-states/
[\[7\]]: https://www.tomshardware.com/news/trendforce-expects-nand-flash-prices-to-continue-falling/
[\[8\]]: https://www.chia.net/2023/01/20/plotting-chias-future/

Commit message:

Submit HW3, HW4, and HW5

assignments/hw2.md, after:

# [Homework 2](https://github.com/hendraanggrian/IIT-CS554/blob/assets/assignments/hw2.pdf): Chia Business Whitepaper

> You are to read the [Chia Business Whitepaper](https://www.chia.net/wp-content/uploads/2022/07/Chia-Business-Whitepaper-2022-02-02-v2.0.pdf)
  that discusses in detail the Proof of Space algorithm: Your review must be
  written in a narrative form, with bullets when appropriate. You are to
  generate a PDF file and submit it on BB before the deadline. You must do these
  reviews individually.
>
> Your review must be written in a narrative form, with bullets when
  appropriate. You are to generate a PDF file and submit it on BB before the
  deadline. You must do these reviews individually.

## Problem 1

> Paper title, paper authors, publication venue (conference, workshop, or
  journal name), year of publication.

Here's a citation block in APA format:

<div style="font-family: 'Noto Serif'; text-align: right;">
Cohen, B., Frazee, D., Graboi, M., Gunter, J., Hoffman, G. & Stoops, C. (2022). <i>Chia Business Whitepaper</i>. Chia Network Inc. https://www.chia.net/wp-content/uploads/2022/07/Chia-Business-Whitepaper-2022-02-02-v2.0.pdf
</div>

## Problem 2

> Paper summary (150~300 words); Clearly state the nature of the work (e.g.
  implementation of a real system, simulation, theoretical, empirical
  performance evaluation, survey, etc).

The *Business Whitepaper* is Chia's reason for its existence, which according to
Chia itself, is to create the ultimate digital money that is simpler than cash
yet resistant to theft while still maintaining the eco-friendly ethos that is
embedded in the company image. Central to this belief is their in-house
consensus model &mdash; an algorithm that verify transactions and award coins
&mdash; called **Proof of Space and Time**, a far cry from **Proof of Work**
originated from Bitcoin by pseudonym *Satoshi Nakamoto*. Despite this, Chia
still believes Proof of Space and Time to be the true Nakamoto consensus because
it is bound by more technical constraints, thus making it more resilient. In an
attempt to boost adoption rate, Chia also prides itself as one of the most
compliant blockchain in the market with clear regulatory blueprint adhering to
United States laws.

Unfortunately, Chia is still nowhere near reaching its utopian dream of "magic
internet money" as they gloriously described it. Because no matter how flawless
the technology is, it is eventually use cases and adoption rate that determines
whether or not a piece of software has a place in our society. As hopeful as
Chia is about their future, they are still consistently ranked outside the top
100 in most crypto indexing websites as of the time of this writing.

This situation is illustrated by how Chia instantly planned to go public even
though they just received fresh funding in 2021.<sup>[\[4\]]</sup> Further
dramaticized by the fact that it is now 2023 and they still have not gone
public, a giant setback they are yet to recover.<sup>[\[5\]]</sup>

## Problem 3

> What are the core contributions of this paper (1~3 items)?

The term **contribution** is ambiguous. Nevertheless in this solution, it refers
to financial contribution as the paper is business-oriented.

1. **Early conception**: Founded by the inventor of *BitTorrent*, presumably
  using the BitTorrent winning as the initial Chia funding.
2. **Pre-alpha stage**: A round of investements from the likes of *A16Z*,
  *Greylock*, *True Ventures*, *Naval*, *Galaxy Digital*, *Metastable*, and
  others.
3. **Strategic reserve**: The company has pledged to conserve 21 million XHC
  &mdash; Chia's native coin &mdash; as a fallback option for the darker days
  ahead.

## Problem 4

> How is this work/solution different than related work (<300 words)?

Chia is an environmentally-responsible blockchain ushering in a new revolution
around efficiency and sustainability. Whereas traditionally new coins are
awarded to participants with raw computing power, Chia utilizes unused
storage/memory space in a reservation-based system they initiatively call Proof
of Space and Time. To put it in simple terms, these empty spaces the plots
occupy are essentially lottery tickets each with the potential to win a certain
amount of XCH.

The power efficiency in Chia is particularly urgent in light of a recent federal
report claiming annual power usage of global cryptocurrencies has surpassed that
of the whole nation of Argentina or Australia.<sup>[\[6\]]</sup> The proponents
of the Proof of Space movement argue, that if enough people are using Chia, no
longer we have to deal with the outrageous power consumption of the conventional
Proof of Work system.

It however remains debatable how effective Proof of Space is compared to the
more recent Proof of Stake, a consensus model made popular by Ethereum
during [the long-waited merge](https://ethereum.org/en/upgrades/merge/). The
adoption rate of Proof of Stake is still low, but adaptability is much higher as
Ethereum is the second largest cryptocurrency at the time of this writing. To
exacerbate things further, Ethereum is more well-equipped to tackle
sustainibility issue commonly rampant among blockchain networks with sharding.<sup>[\[2\]]</sup>

## Problem 5

> Pros: Identify 3 things that this paper does well.

1. **Regularly updated**: The previous paper version 1.1 is released just
  in 2021.
2. **Correct prediction**: Rightfully assumes that NAND &mdash; electronic part
  essential for SSD &mdash; price will continue to plummet.<sup>[\[7\]]</sup>
3. **Lawful**: Provides adequate insight into the inner works of legal and
  financial system.

## Problem 6

> Cons: Identify 3 things that this paper could do better.

1. **Repetitive information**: Some pieces of information are not streamlined.
  (more at [#7](#problem-7))
2. **Doesn't dicuss drawbacks**: For example, the barrier in participating in
  the blockchain is still high with most builds requiring enterprise-grade SSDs
  or extreme-capacity HDDs.
3. **Imperfect security**: Its security can hypothetically still be improved, as
  explained in academic paper *Secure Plot Transfer for the Chia Blockchain*.<sup>[\[3\]]</sup>

## Problem 7

> Identify 1 thing that the author could do that would make the paper better.

The paper does a good job of narrowing the scope down to the business rules of
the Chia network rather than the technical side. And though the paper excels in
delivering selling points and uplifting remarks, I can't help but notice it
makes the same viewpoints in different parts of the paper. For example,
information about difference between Proof of Space and Time and Proof of Work
are scattered around the paper and could theoretically be merged into one
section.

On the other hand, it could just be their conscious (and harmless) decision to
reiterate good news again and again as it benefits their public image. On such
case this complaint is then automatically invalid.

## Problem 8

> Identify 1 thing that someone could pursue as future work (that is not
  identified in the paper already).

As a reference for future work, this paper could discuss the company roadmap
with upcoming features such as compression, GPU plotting, RAM plotting, etc.
Plotting &mdash; Chia's equivalent of farming &mdash; is a resource-intensive
process and every bit of hardware leverage could help.<sup>[\[8\]]</sup>

## References

1. [Cohen, B., & Pietrzak, K. (2019). *The chia network blockchain*. vol, 1, 1-44.](https://www.chivescoin.org/wp-content/uploads/2021/10/ChiaGreenPaper.pdf)
2. [Chow, S. S., Lai, Z., Liu, C., Lo, E., & Zhao, Y. (2018, July). *Sharding blockchain*. In 2018 IEEE international conference on internet of things (iThings) and IEEE Green computing and communications (GreenCom) and IEEE cyber, physical and social computing (CPSCom) and IEEE smart data (SmartData) (pp. 1665-1665). IEEE.](https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/abstract/document/8726639/)
3. [Agrawal, S. (2022). *Secure Plot Transfer for the Chia Blockchain*. Cryptology ePrint Archive.](https://eprint.iacr.org/2022/871.pdf)
4. [Cointelegraph: Chia raises $61M for ‘eco-friendly’ crypto despite critics](https://cointelegraph.com/news/chia-raises-61m-for-eco-friendly-crypto-despite-critics/)
5. [Bloomberg: Crypto Startup Chia’s New CEO Isn’t Giving Up on IPO Goals](https://www.bloomberg.com/news/articles/2023-01-19/crypto-startup-chia-s-new-ceo-isn-t-giving-up-on-ipo-goals)
6. [The White House: FACT SHEET: Climate and Energy Implications of Crypto-Assets in the United States](https://www.whitehouse.gov/ostp/news-updates/2022/09/08/fact-sheet-climate-and-energy-implications-of-crypto-assets-in-the-united-states/)
7. [Tom's Hardware: How Low Can SSD Prices Go? TrendForce Expects NAND Price Decline to Continue](https://www.tomshardware.com/news/trendforce-expects-nand-flash-prices-to-continue-falling/)
8. [Chia News: Plotting Chia's Future](https://www.chia.net/2023/01/20/plotting-chias-future/)

[\[1\]]: https://www.chivescoin.org/wp-content/uploads/2021/10/ChiaGreenPaper.pdf
[\[2\]]: https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/abstract/document/8726639/
[\[3\]]: https://eprint.iacr.org/2022/871.pdf
[\[4\]]: https://cointelegraph.com/news/chia-raises-61m-for-eco-friendly-crypto-despite-critics/
[\[5\]]: www.bloomberg.com/news/articles/2023-01-19/crypto-startup-chia-s-new-ceo-isn-t-giving-up-on-ipo-goals
[\[6\]]: https://www.whitehouse.gov/ostp/news-updates/2022/09/08/fact-sheet-climate-and-energy-implications-of-crypto-assets-in-the-united-states/
[\[7\]]: https://www.tomshardware.com/news/trendforce-expects-nand-flash-prices-to-continue-falling/
[\[8\]]: https://www.chia.net/2023/01/20/plotting-chias-future/
